It means that you
will have to add better
gurus, brother, only
then you will go across.
Because who will eat the rest?
Where is his shop?
Because they ate their
goods.
Now they won’t recommend to
somebody, as doctors do, no.
You will go to someone, sir, that I have
lost my eye; Ok, first lets
Examine Teeth .
Then you removed all the teeth there.
Then he said that I will examine your
eye, removed your eye; All done.
later, it was known that
nothing has happened to you.
Similar is the condition of these people,
there is a partnership among all of them.
He said, "I only take this much, not the rest,
the rest for the guru [inaudible].
Now that guru, another character sitting, has taken out
the rest of the money; Came to be known that
the house has been sold, the children have all been
left out, they are standing on the cross roads,
the poor children are begging.
When we don't use our intellect,
we go to such gurus.
And in this way think that any work that is done
in the name of God, God does, is a very wrong thing.
Like today one lady met us there.
So she said, "Our guru was prominent for [inaudible-of
Upanishads], but here she is sitting and ringing the bell.
That we are in the refuge of the guru,
we are in the refuge of the guru.
So I said, then; She said,
"I'm crossed over now."
Your own certificate, your own everything.
How did you cross? ‘Beta’
I took to the refuge of the guru, I was crossed.
I said, this can not happen
by coming to my shelter either.
Now I am sitting alive, your guru is dead.
But you say, "Mom! We are your refuge."
And get us across.
It takes your effort, and the awakening of the Kundalini,
It’s the work of transcending.
Until you cross, till then bowing your
head in refuge your, Mother!
This is not going to
work.
I may tell you clearly,
Until you have crossed over, till then
All sayings are nonsense, useless
That I have come your refuge, this and that.
Hey, all this is you said from your side, but
I had to come in refuge, isn’t it.
Its me who has to act, the work must
be done through my hands; Unless I
As long as the work is not done with my
hands, it will be a useless thing.
And let me tell you in totality that
The one who is not realized, is not transcended;
The realized one is has crossed over.
In it none can falsely certify,
no matter you fight for it,
Quarrel, do whatever, what can I do.
If didn’t then no, and it happened then its done;
Its straight forward that we can do
hard work, but we can't transcend.
We can try all out, we can give you love;
Can do all that but transcend,
you will have to get realized.
Like we can cook, we can cook great food,
but if you don’t have a tongue
inside you, then we will feed
when and you will understand when.
Your tongue should be awakened that
It may understand what mother has made.
After all its you who has to eat; or eating
also I should do it for you.
It must be understood that the element is
the same; that Guru you get only from God.
The Guru who ascends into the Supreme is
the Guru, and no one else is a Guru.
All are blind, and where the blind is leading
other blind, God knows.
Nothing happens with such a shrine.
Shrine gets effective only after realization;
Prior to that Shrine is nothing.
You must have seen that I don't let
anyone come to my feet without getting crossed over.
Because what can I do if
you haven’t crossed over, what should I do? First
realisation is must. Yes, it is
definitely there that many people
do transcend while coming on feet, that’s ok.
But needs no shrine; he must
come refuge later.
When you seek shrine the for then, at least,
for the sake of shrine one must get realized.
There should be light, without
light, what are you going to do for me?
I don't know maybe if I am too from 420, 108,
how are you going to know if I am or not.
Even if I am talking nonsense,
then how will you know?
I will never let you come to my
feet until you have crossed over.
That is why it was forbidden not
to be in captivation of anyone.
Devotion should only be in front of
the one who reconciles you to God.
Unless that event happens within you,
without substance
you should not believe anything.
So, I have told you about our
element of security.
Tomorrow I will tell you about the rest of
the elements, today has been a long day.
And I was very happy about one thing, because
everyone said yesterday, tomorrow is cinema. Then
no one will come, Mother! In the program.
। And my father was going to London,
so I came, leaving him like that.
I didn't even go to the airport! I
said no, I should go, maybe,
Someone will come, and that's why I will come,
and I am very happy that you people
Leaving your cinema, have here, it means
that you gave more importance to the element, and
So I was very glad.
By the grace of Mother, if you all cross today,
then tomorrow it will be a lot of fun, and
Come here with everyone tomorrow.
They want to, but I've
seen that we have
we had one girl from England, her
name was Felicity, and she came here;
I was speaking only in Hindi or Marathi,
and .
When she went back to England, she
lost all her vibrations, so, because I was
speaking in English.
So, I said, what's the matter, and I
analysed it that when I'm speaking in
English, Hindi or Marathi, it is a
mantra, it's a thing that gives energy, no
doubt, but when I speak in English
language, specially, say, the people who
understand English are, sort of,
they start thinking about it and their ego
starts working it out, and when ego
starts working it out, you know what
happens, and that's why the vibrations
were much poorer, and if you want, I
will speak it, if you want Me to
speak in English, I will, I don't mind,
but the problem is this, that the
more I'll speak in English, the worse it
would be for vibrations.
So, I would like all of you to tell
Me what should I do,
because Indians don't go into
thought processes, you see, when
I speak in Hindi, they don't go
into thought processes so much.
One or two might go, but it's not a
common thing, but Western people always
must put everything into thought process, a
machinery, you see, already working it out.
So, if you allow Me, it would be better
if I speak in Hindi today, is it all right?
And just try to hear it from your Sahasrara,
and you'll be amazed that all your
chakras can be opened out, just don't
try to understand it, that's the best,
because it is the thought comes afterwards,
the bijas, the seed of the thought,
is the first, the primal, and the,
whether this language or that language or
any language, the
seed is the same.
You see, the cup is different, but
the seed is the same, and the effect of
the cup should not be there, it is
the effect of the content of the cup,
which is important, and once you just try
the content, you should not bother about it.
So what you should care for is the
content, and not the, not the glass or
the cup in which it is being delivered,
and for the people who are more worried
about the cup always, it is better
that they don't know the cup, they better
have it, the content, it will
help you, you will see that.
Just think from that angle, actually
this is a very common thing, and
Christine, who was also from London,
she never felt such force in, in England,
but when she came to England, and
when she was moving about with Me, and I
was mostly speaking in Hindi or Marathi,
and she's in the, another world now,
and she's very good.
I think it also keeps your ego a
little bit down, you see, ego is too
much in English speaking countries,
that you know very well, the English
language itself is very ego orientated,
I think, and it keeps your ego down, like
the other day we were coming by
plane, and one of the air hostess, she just
announced that those who are going
further to Nepal, please consult the people
down, she had to say down below, she
missed the below point, and everybody
started laughing at her and making
fun of her as if she was the greatest fool
ever born, you see, but now these air
hostess must be knowing at least three or
four languages, plus languages of
this country, while the people who are
supposed to be English speaking only
know English, nothing more, and the French
think they know their own language, so
they don't know any other language but
French.
So it is important to understand that
when we have a ego orientated personality,
it is better not to listen to words,
but better to have the contents without
the words there, is a better
idea, it will work out better.
So again, I hope by My speech I
have not again given a push to your
egos by any chance; Try to keep it down,
and see that this ego business, which
is our enemy, absolutely it is our
enemy, that we have acquired through our
different systems, we know that, and
so we must try to keep it down as much
as we can, and you'll enjoy
the Hindi speech, all right?
Now I have praised you very loudly, so whether
this is true or not, it is a matter to know.
This ego is no less in our human beings, we become
egoistic about every useless thing.
And these are such useless stuff,
sticking out like this that
even though we know it's the most stupid
thing, we keep doing it.
Sahaja Yoga shows you the truth,
the truth that is, was and will remain.
In it’s case no one can compromise,
that you may say, "Come on, Mother! Why don't you
just say that so that the work gets materialized?
If you say this way, it will be good,
say it that way;
It will be good; Nothing
such is true, whatever is, so it is. That will
Remain like this, and if you are not willing to
believe the truth, you will have to suffer it.
Means, it is not that the truth harms you,
but if you let go the truth
then you come down to untruth and
when you come down to untruth, then untruth is a
harmful factor, it will hurt you.
It has so happened that in
Sahaja Yoga many people
Came, achieved heights, had big gains,
got a lot; transcended
many and after that they left Sahaja Yoga, and after
that by themselves came after years that Mother!
I've got this disease, what do I do now?
There are many such people,
hey started saying that Sahaja Yoga
has punished us; Sahaja yoga did not punish
But if you are sitting under someone's
umbrella and you leave him and
go out and if it rains on you,
what will you say, that this shelter
gave you sufferance; You only
wiped off your canopy and went out. But being in
Sahaja Yoga, it’s canopy if has
sheltered you then this is its
In fact obligation upon you, instead
that it be your obligation on that canopy.
This is the obligation of that canopy, great obligation
that it sought you and kept you within its fold.
And cared for your micro needs.
There are many things that are
found in Sahaja Yoga.
Out of that, as I told you, the prasad of
Lakshmi also remains for you and
I also told you that Shri Lakshmi Ji
resides in the navel chakra.
The power of Shri Lakshmi resides there in;
And I also told you how Lakshmi ji is.
I told you that there is a great difference
between Lakshmi ji and those who have money. Lakshmi ji
standing on a lotus, she has a lotus in her
one hand and the other hand is giver of
Shelter. Lakshmi ji is standing on the lotus;
In looks, She is quite heavy,
You must have not ever seen Lakshmi ji
like today's beauty queens?
but Her health is very good
because they have a lot of
water inside them, they were born out of water,
were they not? The one who is born from water,
She has to have a lot of water inside
This too has a reason, if she
water inside Her, then for the movement of these
Chakras, there being no buffer, no hurdles in between;
There being No safety left, so
presence of water in body is
Necessary. And for this there is less noise
and even then
so standing on the lotus,
as if there seems no word in
Hindi, but one should say that she is adorned or well
Even by balance and no weight is put on the
lotus, and doesn’t lay her weight on lotus; That is
she does not put her burden on anyone.
You see how much burden people
put on others; Now, as if a guest has come,
and our people, especially Sahaja yogis,
sometimes do such a thing,
sometimes a specialty of Hindustani Sahajayogi also do it.
As if you have come from somewhere, now you have
come to Delhi,
then he will first say, "Sir, we are not getting
any rest here."
And I can't find enough food here.
It's not a good arrangement here.
That arrangement is not right, like in their house, these
people look absolutely luxurious habitually.
As soon as you come here, everyone
knows that this thing is not right here.
So-and-so is not good here. If someone
comes to Mumbai, it is the same for them. It means
you remain a thorn; everywhere
you don’t behave
like a flower, like a thorn you remain
biting; Everywhere, everyone should
feel that you have come from somewhere, you
are something special. You
must have some speciality.
In this we think that we have made our life
something very important.
And the man, who got more money
he pretends more; The more a man is
poor, the less his tantrums in their country,
but as much as a man gets rich,
the more his tantrums and
Lakshmi ji's tantrums, She somehow
keeps standing on Lotus
all the time; never says ‘Bhai! I’m tired.’ For some time
I may lay down’. All the time, balancing her
gorgeous body keeps
Standing, absolutely lightly that
no one feels; This is untarnishable
example of Lakshmi. The man who has
real Lakshmi never feels heavy any where.
Such a person, wherever he lives his
fragrance, his aroma spreads far and wide but
Its not reflected from his any gestures;
He doesn’t show off to you.
Whether you have money or you don't
Or he has more money, or what you lack.
He lives in such a way that no one knows
When how he came and how went away.
He spends life like someone
That no one knows; but mostly
People with more money, first boost
that Sir, I am so rich; and if not the at least
Will keep playing strange horns on the way,
so that they turn and see that
who donkey is coming. Everything
must be shown off; everything
Has an imitation for it. He brings all
games in his name because he is
wealthy. It is not a question of Lakshmi ji,
Lakshmi ji lives in such a way,
controlled and balanced that no-one knows;
Then with one hand
they should donate, that donation also
no one must know that its donation.
Its just flowing, its going, its being given;
No question of taking and from other hand
there should be shelter for those who are
dependent on them. All should be blessed instead
That many kick, beat, do this and
that to their servants; not this.
Dependent, that is, those who are
completely dependent on Lakshmi ji.
a complete hand, looks full of boon
And they have lotus in their both hands.
Lotus are pink in color and
Pink color signifies love; This pink color is
a sign of their Preet, pink color represents
her love. She absolutely in
her delicate petals
gives place to a creature with
thorns like a whirlpool.
may come from anywhere, there remains
arrangements for him to stay, all the time for him
There is arrangement. I haven’t seen
any such rich that on their door if anyone
comes, then said good brother, you don’t
have a place, come at my place, sleep here.
He will instead keep four guards, four security;
Even if there is some gentleman then
They will beat him out. So the element of
Lakshmi, inside us, is
in naval ‘Nabhi’ Chakra, about which
I told you. It is,
as it is, we can not become that element
You change everything that of
outside, but that element remain as
it is, neither the element can be changed nor
You can direct it and neither
you can fight with it.
That element is made as such element,
If you have to stay on the element and
you have to be honest, then
you should know that what is true will
remain the truth; You can't change
that. Now many people say
What happened mother If our money is
black money, so what; Here we have built
huge buildings here for the poor and
we have built many temples.
And we built many temples and
so the thing is that for the poor people
[IN AUDIBLE]
It is God's job to build a temple.
This is man's work; What is the
benefit of building a temple?
That’s visible to you. Put four men there; Whatever
they will extort from whoever comes,
they will take and eat it and say,
“ Sahab now do worship.”
Temples should also have Brahmins;
Brahmins, that is who has known Brahma, who is reborn
who is realized is Brahmin. Nowadays In which
temple such a Brahmin is sitting.
On the contrary, I see all are demons,
so horrid
absolutely monsters; Wherever you go, there is
sting, beating, greed, all kinds of dirt. And
inferior things except this know
nothing; They, in any way,
cannot be Brahmins. The real Brahmin is
the one who is a realized soul; only he should be
called a Brahmin., who is reborn ‘Dvij’;
Now the challenge for Brahmin is
if they want the uplift of Brahmins then go and tell
them: Look, you are defaming the name of Brahmins
You are not Brahmins; You can not
be Brahmin as the Brahmin is that who has
attained the Brahma tatva of God, Brahma tatva
is flowing within him, he only is
self Brahmin and none the else; This will cause
a great deal of harm to the entire caste.
And all the caste will be infamous. Now, to know
this element that in Lakshmi Tatwa
what mistakes we commit, let me explain
a little bit to you. Lakshmi element, that is
all around it is spread the principle of religion; and
this element of religion, the ten Gurus have
bestowed on us. It is that so far
we say that the main ten
Gurus that we had, it does not mean that
These ten Gurus that were
the only happening and no one has happened;
but these main Ten Gurus, in Sahaja Yoga
we recognize which starting from Adi Nath
And to Socrates and
From Lautse to King Janak, Nanak, Mausa
And many such other these ten are
there whom we recognize, who we
believe have become immortal.
Joraster, all these are the descents of
the same Guru element, one of the same.
Now it should be kept in mind
how in the Lakshmi element,
we mess in. Its necessary why is there
no Lakshmi in our country; many people
Ask me Ram Chandra left what vibrations in
your country; Vibrations that
He left must be in your Lakshmi Tatwa,
you all will see the reason of it; The first reason is that
Wherever you have Bhoot Vidya, Phantom Vidya,
Samshan Vidya
and Tantric Vidya, if you run
any of these knowledge,
then Lakshmi Ji will go from there.
Immediately Lakshmi ji will leave.
If you run any Vidya, run Tantra Vidya;
That is, any ghost knowledge,
If you use any of these knowledge,
then your Lakshmi power
will end. As told to you, one Sahab
used to visit us.
He had a shop and that shop was not running
at all; then I said, “Ok! Bring
your wife. When
he came with his wife, saw that his house-wife
[Graha Lakshmi ] had
absolutely ghostly looks, so filthy thoughts
were running inside her. I asked her
whom do you visit, do you go to
some tantric? She said no, not to Tantric,
but he is our Guru. I Said,
“ Ok! What does your Guru do?” And
when she told us what all he told
them to do; I said Baba re Baba,
he is a solid tantric and that's why the woman
got in clutches. । then removed those peepers
that were offered on him. After
that the man flourished so much,
Flourished so much that he himself was astonished
that the people who never came to our shop
started coming and like this Lakshmi ji
started coming. Now
see where all is more poverty
in your country; Kerala, I have
Been to; I was very surprised that
In Kerala, in house only people
burry all dead; Where they die,
they bury them.
Where is the need of going far away,
buried there itself, work finished.
No! the voice is coming, yes!
Ok!
Now, now the voice is coming, now
this phantom lore and this samshan vidya
And there is also a difference
in such death,
means that the man who
dies should be properly burried.
Even otherwise there
is no need to burry
anybody; but yes, if
some has become a saint
Saint means not that who worships
and who, wearing
saffron clothes wanders here
and there, not that; the one
who gets realised, who is
transcended; the one who has
become a saint,
which has transcended,
is not burnt. He is never burnt.
That is called samadhi.
They can be in the tomb. Here,
wherever see all tombs
of this and that are seen.
And when a man dies, who
is not realized, then it is better to
burn that so that all
the negativities, in him,
get cleared and in a way, he gets born
once again,
it becomes complete
cleansed because you know
that you have a special
characteristic that
can purify even 'Kanchan',
means Gold. So such man
must be burnt, straight way;
But people bury him at home.
When we went there in the rural, I said
where did you bring here among ghosts,
Complete creamation
city is totally creamation
ground. Then asked
how; I said here all
dead are burried, I see; When they
were asked, said yes! here since thousands
years its prevalent; I said 'Aye',
what you burry in home only. Then
came to know that once
Shankaracharya, Adi-Shankaracharya,
that too disciple principle,
He is a big personality, refused them that
your mother, you can not
burn, you can't burn mother.
Then he used banayan leaves,
tree to burned his mother.
Then he cursed them that you
too will not get any thing to
burn and in your homes only
you will have to
burry. But for that curse
became very heavy, then
these people started to
bury it in the house. So for the curse
and the abundance of burrial land
there it is difficult to eradicate poverty;
though we went and tried hard there
for this and made people understand
not to burry in homes but outside and
Here, poverty did not get eradicated.
The second thing is
where humans for laziness
only turns, poverty sets in there; Lazy
people, means most lazy people are in this
in this Bengal region. You won't
find more lazy person any where
else. I used to think earlier
that the people of Lucknow are
the most lazy.
When my in-laws are
in Lucknow, I saw that their Sun
rises at 11'o clock; What will
happen to them; I am from Maharashtra
and I'm habitual of getting up
at 4 am, i am from Maharashtra.
In Maharashtra, the
poor people take out food
from the stone, they need
labor hard with stones.
There poor people getup at four
to work hard. People from UP
I have seen, are very lazy, most
lazy, but when I visited Bengal
I said that such won't
be found anywhere.
Now that I went to
London, I think that
the most lazy are
English people. They
are the laziest people.
Now in Hindi that
I speak, there is no harm in telling.
You won't believe that these
people wash their faces in the
night itself before sleeping and
there are also those who haven't
had bath for a year. Muslims
at least take bath every Friday; They
are above them, full one year and there
if you made some one get up in
the morning at around 9/10 O'clock
then is no sinner, wicked,
demon more than you. Means
that there is no sin bigger than that.
And for getting up before
10 O'clock, meaning
before 12 O'clock it's
extremely difficult thing.
But for job what could you do?
So as you sleep in bed, get up,
get into jeans and reaching office
go to the bathroom, do everything
there, bathing is no question to you.
Only brushing is need, so did at night.
And Indians are just the
opposite; Every morning they
will bath in the morning
and will get out in that cold,
after that they may get
cancer; And if ask them,"
Brother take bath at night,
brush it in the morning",
Mother, you are
saying that; I said," yes!
Brother, I am saying
the same and do like that.
Then they said." How
about you." I said,"
I don't move out,
I remain indoors."
So for me, my issue is
different, now nothing is
going to happen to me
but it is fine for you in such
cool winter here that you get
up to take bath in the morning.
And then you should bath in cold water
after that you go out.
Even otherwise It is a very
wrong thing to take bath
in hot water and then
move out., no matter here.
उसके बाद हमेशा ठंडे पानी से One
should take a bath, always take bath with
Even later on also bath with cold
water, then you won't ever get cold etc.
Now this is a little thing but but to
do that is also quite difficult for them
They are so lazy and are always so
tired that now these people came here
They will keep
lying for whole day
long and sleep,
eat whole day and
when asked in the evening; What
brother, we have got tired!.
What did you do?
If they get tired of sleeping, then
how will they be, only God knows?
But laziness is also too much in our
country and so do are the ways to avoid it.
There are so many [more
than 2500- 'pachis sau']
labor saving devices,
just ask the Bengalis.
Ask, this is the condition
of Bengali people
If you to buy something then buy by
12 noon; see from 12 to 3 in afternoon
all the shops are closed.
The lock is installed,
and you will hear the
snores from inside.
and that even upto
5 in evening the
shops do not open,
that is 12 O'clock to
five o'clock no shop opens.
So, there are many such shops
that do not open upto 12 O'clock, no
matter what you have to buy and second
thing is that they are so engrossed
in laziness that they, for this,
do not understand that there is any other
world because when you are short of time
what will you see to others,
what will you understand
from others, what can
you learn from others?
They do not know if there is also any other
world; As for them, 'We are the only one'.
We are everything. Great region like Bengal
where such accomplishments have happened.
Goddess has done how many deeds but
today Tantriks have ruined for their alms.
The tantrics have
absolutely taken control over
there; they have so
controlled because lazy
People have no other
business except for going and
asking their future; Brother,
when there is nothing to do
you will show your
hand to know what's
there? This way great
Tantriks gathered there
who keep on telling that this will happen
to you, your father will die then you
then you are going to get
a lot of money and then you
will have an accident and
you will have lot of money.
and like this such people [NOT CLEAR]
And for this reason, at
such places, no money
should be given. But
what is not always earning
hard. But whatever it is,
hard work is always earned.
When Lakshmi ji
came into the world,
then you know
Deities & devons all
laboured together then only Lakshmi
ji came in the world.
Then who don't labor, for them
Lakshmi if at all comes, goes waste.
As some rich accumulate
money for all their
children, and for the
sake of donations will not
give a penny, not there; Buy
jwels, this and that for children
When the father died, they
will busy managing to least spent
on performing the last
rites. Its better to throw them
in the sea. No, its alright; gone once
for all. Then by taking such money
all kinds of filth gets
adicted; free money for no labor
if some human gets, it's not
valued and for this Sahaj Yoga
also is not valued.
Specially in Hindustan because
these people have not to work very
hard but these poor people,
outside, need to labor very hard.
Therefore, they vlaue
it. You get it instantly
as you are born on
this virtuous land.
Your mother is very
much kind on you,
means it's not me,
your 'Bharat Bhumi'.
So you get a lot with
her help and even
after that you have
no appreciation for her.
This is absolutely correct.
Why our UP people so lazy,
the reason is that in UP
Ganga and Jamuna have given so much
boon that the land over there is so good
Land is so productive
that you put only
seeds in the ground,
it will come out.
And because of this
people there are excessively
lazy because there is
no need to labor hard.
You say anything,
let's go like a bit and have a walk, would
say," Just have a seat,
only now have come."
Whole day long this will
go on. One Sahab came to
Lucknow, started
saying that we said that
haven't you to go to
Puna, your sister is there.
Starting to say, had
to go, but its quite
difficult. I said what
difficult it is Sahab,
I will get you the
ticket and if you
so want will get you
[Bhoomi-UNCLEAR]
He started saying that if feel cold,
now open the bedding, take out quilt.
If its not hinderance then what?
There are a descriptions
of each one of the
lazy, although we also
saw, but description is
that once it was asked that
whosoever the laziest among you
come a step forward; most of
the lazy were got seated, one
was left behind; He was
asked why you did not
come forward; replied
who to take that headache
to come forward.
This description of laziness
begins the rule of the house; That's why
these are UP people, there in
none other more reprover than them.
You see
what I am saying is
true or not; when ever
you talk to the people
of UP, then understand
that there will be
politics in this. Yes! Its
different in Sahaj
Yoga; Now that politics
that the message will
pass from here to there
and you kept sitting;
Yes, they said this for us.
Said yes, 'Bhai' it was so said to us;
and this created
enemity between us.
Dispute happens,
groupism begins. And the
reason is that there
is too much time. You
have no labor to do; your mother
is giving free, you are eating
and drinking. The one who has
time does all this
and in its case
the people are so
cautious and they are
so proud in this
matter that you get
so surprised. They are
not concerned of their
poverty. Our one of the
servants was from UP,
very dirty, and used
to do dirty dishes.
Sahab came from
Madras, I said see
you are so dirty,
all these Madrasis
will become servants
and all of you guys
will ousted of your
job, you people should
work hard; said,' see
what labor we will do,
just keep those servants.
Now we are going to rule.
We said to them," Wah Bhai
Wah".[ Appreciable]. They all
are ruling; Those
brain calculations
happen more there, where
every thing one gets easily and where
you have to do labor;
Punjab is a good
land but there is
all the time there
are external
problems. All the time
outside people keep coming to Punjab. Those
human beings won't labor here, if Laxmi ji
stays, then we may listen what you say.
We have seen such
families where in coins
used to be abundant,
and were counted
by stick as you measure Petrol,
as to how much inches
is left out and today the
status is that you may
search all then except for
dust there is nothing. Lot many
families extinguished; and alike
laziness is detrimental to Sahaj Yoga.
So, for any Sahaj Yogi laziness
I say that for Sahaj Yogi
laziness is his worst enemy.
So it is said that there
is still time and when you
you get into laziness,
your 'Navel chakra' will
get caught; Now I told
you that for 'Naval Chakra'
to be in order a person must be active,
should wake up early in the morning
and in the morning
whatever Sahaj Yoga
work is to be done and only
after finishing it active
in your daily routines.
Sahaj yoga teaches so many things,
teaches so many things that you will be
surprised. We had people in London for whom
it was difficult to wake up early, but now
they get up at 4
o'clock, bathe, and sit for
meditation; they
themselves are surprised.
I asked them how they did it; they say that
their Mother! you wake us up at 4 o'clock,
Said Mother! You wake us up and we
get up early. So long as in our country
this activeness does not
inculcates; poverty can’t be
eradicated from this country
by crying, shouting and begging.
Begging is the worst
thing; I say it's better that
the country might starve and die,
but what's the need to beg from others?
Rather I say there is nothing more malign
and worst thing; it's better
we might die, but it's okay; it's better
than begging from others countries.
Is there any shortage of
anything in our Country;
If there is any short
fall of any thing in
your country,
You see, then to
approach other country I feel
What do they have except for plastic?
a gentleman came to our house and said
visit our house and
said, "It's very important;
we have an Indian
artefact." Didn’t know
what strange it was? We drove us 50 miles;
And what did he show
a Moradabadi Goglet was kept in his home.
Our daughter asked, "Mom, what is it?"
He has bored; He asked,
“ What did she say, what is
she saying?” I said,” No,
she is appreciating you
that you brought this Muradabadi
Goglet. He said, "This is absolutely
authentic." I said, "Good,
what's so authentic?"
He said, "This is a
very old vase"; I got
reminded of Premchand ji's story that was
nicely written on big round bowl [ ‘Lota’]
I recollected the same that this
person took us 50 miles to show us a
Goglet from Moradabad
because at there place
Brass sells at Gold
prices. At there place,
If someone wears a cotton cloth, they
become like a king; cotton, handmade, Oh
Oh My God, what’s
this, at our place people
think that thing bought
from the market is more
better, readymade is more
expensive; they don't believe
it. At our place, if we say
that we have cotton cloth,
That we get so much
cotton cloth, started
saying, "Is it, you get
so much cotton, so, then
You're a rich person",
they said; I said that we are
but think as we don't have
transistor, so we'r poor.
Started saying people there
are fools; I said,” Absolutely, they
are totally foolish.” useless
things when they have everything?"
‘Are’ who has all the
things and he runs
after wasteful things,
what he must be called?
AS we had been to Germany then
all told us that in Germany,
Very good stainless
steel is available, do bring
one piece for each one
of us. It was long ago,
around 65 years earlier; So I told
to the lady who was with us that
we have to buy some stainless steel;
She asked, "What did you say, stainless
steel?" I said, "Yes.”
Started saying," Although
you look royal, why
are you buying
stainless steel?” I said our
relatives are habitual
of using Stainless steel.
She said, " I have
heard that you people
eat in brass vessels"; I said, “
Yes, by all means we do eat in
brass.” Then said for whom you
are taking this worthless stainless
stainless steel.
At our place beggars
eat in stainless
steel. At our place If
someone becomes rich,
they proudly keep stainless steel vessels,
as if what they have
achieved. Our values have become so
low that we have become useless or
that we're poor; I don’t
understand if we are really
so poor? You come to
India, and we'll make you
ill by feeding you so
much that if we don’t
make you sick within
two days, then you say!
I got worried; I say I'm Mata ji, and
I'll also start fasting like them.
But I tell everyone not to fast; Then
It will come on me. And in fact
any one is to fast, that’s me. As
they are all after me saying ,
"Eat this, eat that"; it's like when a new
groom comes, and they put lot of food in
his mouth. Same is my condition, who will say that
there's poverty in this house? Now, these foreigners...
are coming, they say they eat a lot in the morning, they
eat a lot during the day, they eat a lot in the evening.
It's not visible anywhere
that there's poverty here.
What kind of calamity has come
that you eat in a brass plate?
People say that they
took us to show them...
They start saying, "Look, this
is the house, you can also make
an ashram, but don't use
cement in it." That's for them...
Its rubbish. Cement is
rubbish, worse than rubbish;
the person who is
completely labor class...
lives in cement. A
wooden house is a
superior thing, and
even better than that...
is the thatched house,
which is called...’Kual’;
It's knitted, that's the best. If you see
it, you'll say, "How beautifully it's been
built with our own hands!"
Our values have changed;
if our values are
right, then we'll know...
how rich we've become, and how much
God has given us. God...
has blessed us not with ten glasses,
one for each drink...
Have you seen in anyone's house that
there are ten different glasses?
Here, they have separate glasses for
whiskey, brandy, water...
Separate for poison, and every other thing
has separate glasses, and in our house...
there's only one clean,
pure, good, and superior...
brass glass. What's
the advantage of that?
Their glass and their
entire civilization is
based on glass...; What’s
there in them that you
People want to learn from them?
We are not short of anything, but now we're
trying to become like them. So, we think
that we'll consider ourselves equal...but
we don't know how to talk among ourselves.
The true form of Lakshmi is in
giving among ourselves;
Laxmi Pati, when they
start giving, only then
more will come to them.
If Lakshmi Pati is
no more, then in three
generations, and his
children and grandchildren
if cursed by all and want that they
be destroyed in every way,
There in is litigation and fighting,
and later on whatever happens,
In litigation all money get consumed
by Advocates, that's not Lakshmi Pati;
Or those commercial women who
loot such houses, would he be Lakshmi Pati?
Lakshmi Pati is one who... [inaudible]
no one can touch his Lakshmi.
He should be called Lakshmi
Pati whose things may someone
dare steal; and if one does,
his condition will worsen.
Such Lakshmi Pati and Lakshmi principle
are the most abundant in this country.
But we've forgotten them;
what have we become now? Even I don't
understand myself; I've become a stranger
in this country. I don’t
Understand that when
God has given us everything;
Small thing to be satisfied
with what we have, why do
we lack in that. In Punjabi language,
we always keep on doing ‘Khai, Khai’,
isn’t it; don’t know that, maybe the word
has lost its meaning, but earlier, "khai",
whatever it is ‘Khai’,
is truth; All is well.
If someone asks, "How are
you?". All fine [ Khairiyat Se]
So, did I reply, was not
to say that I'm dying. when
you're fine [Khariyat Se], it means
saying from the heart,
"I'm really fine." and
until there is contentment
in all, Lakshmi's blessings
won't be bestowed.
Until then Lakshmi's blessings won’t
come on you because the
solution is only her blessings.
And if you don't have
contentment, no matter how much...
Money gets showered upon you, you are of
no worth, Absolutely useless and
And another thing which
makes the Lakshmi Go
is miserliness.
Hindustanis are a bit less
Miser; these people are
more miser. they become...
so, we need to avoid
miserliness. Whatever money
they have, that much they get glued to
money; more the money comes, more miser
they are. So beware of
miserliness. Lakshmi ji’s
principle is giving,
charity, charity, charity.
The person who gives charity...
that is Lakshmi Pati; Lakshmi ji always
resides, indestructible.
because of her nature. Today, I said
something about Lakshmi ji...
after seeing the
condition of these people...
I felt like telling something
to people of the region; ‘Bhai’
what are you doing,
doing all this Lakshmi ji...
won't come. Lakshmi ji
will come to Sahjis only
On realization, awakening
the Lakshmi principal.
Then all sorts of ‘
Bhoot ‘ problems will
vanish from the world.
Now, the Chakra above
that, about which I
told you, is of security,
where in the Goddess resides and which
for us is the endowment our power, Shakti.
In Hinduism, Shakti is worshipped...
Hinduism is the worship of Shakti, but...
we don't see Hindus worshipping Shakti;
instead, they
worship money. I've never
seen Hindus worshipping Shakti...
They might be worshiping, but in their
minds they only want money. Even to the
Extent, when they go to Shakti's
they ask Mother! Give us money. Going
To Shakti and asking this that give
us money; Instead we should ask to
Make us capable.
Make equal meaning, what we are, make
us of the same meaning. Make us the Spirit.
If we ask for this from our mother, then
there is no need to ask for any worldly thing.
You are powerless, so
you run after other things.
The one who is capable,
keeps them on his kick.
He is a King; he does
not care for any thing.
And so we need to awaken in Sahaja
Yoga and rise and stand up and be
such special people, who
are of one specific in the world.
In which all these stupid wasteful things,
that Sahab grabbed someone's money
snatched someone's house, troubled
someone, murdered some one; Such a
kind of demon army is getting
created in this country, to abolish this
it is necessary that you awaken in Sahaja
Yoga, then such people will get readied, such
people will be ready, that no demonic
power of the world can remove them.
And could not destroy them. This
is the only way to save our country.
I do not see any other way out.
There should be transformation
and for the transformation there
should be awakening of Kundalini.
Until the Kundalini's awakened,
there won't be transformation in you.
Now the very important Chakra
that is called Vishuddhi Chakra
today is too much catching of
you all because its dusty all around.
And this Shri Chakra is on the name
of Shri Krishna. It is Shri Krishna's
abode, He is Purnavatar
[Great Incarnation]; He is
Purnavtar because for Him
this world is a play [Leela].
All is a joke, He is in those
conditions where any artificiality He
need not do, need not say
anything, need not sniveler
He is doing all this play. When in
Sahaja Yoga, a person rises above
this Chakra, this power comes in
him too that he starts witnessing.
He does not get entangled in unwarented
things, a pleasure always reflects in him.
And he witnesses that the whole
world is just a continuing play; all this
fun is going on, all this is falsehood;
Why all these people are running
after this falsehood. This
Chakra is very important
with in us. Now earlier I
used to say people that
Do not smoke. Now when cancer
disease has come, people are saying that
yes 'Bhai', Mother was saying
not to smoke; now all people
say that it definitely results in
cancer. What is cancer? Cancer also
deviation from Sushmna is
Cancer. If you are on Sushumna,
then you cannot have any
disease, especially cancer; But
if you remained deviated
from Sushmna to either left or
right in any extreme you may
get Cancer. So in the middle
you have to stay; After coming
to Sahaja Yoga thousands
of people, thousands of
people have left cigarette
smoking cigarettes
instantly. Like that their Guru
element also got
corrected, drinking etc. also
they left. Now this Vishuddhi
Chakra, the main spaeciality of it is that
when we raised our neck
and we became human
then only Vishuddhi
Chakra got fully manifested;
prior to it, whatever
its role that was
not completed and now it
has sixteen roles,'Kalayein';
Shri Krishna is identified
as Sixteen Kala! And
in the same way
sixteen are its sub-plexes.
One, whose Vishuddhi
Chakra will be fine, his
face will be here this side, before
that its work was not completed.
And now it has its sixteen roles.
Shri Krishna is called 'Solah Kala'.
And like wise it has
sixteen sub plexes. The
one, whose Vishuddhi
Chakra will be alright
his face will be beautiful, glorious,
his eyes will have magnificent,
and his figure will be
stunning and his magnificence
would have a high level of sense of
detachment; as if seeing a play. On that man's
face it will look as if some play is going
on; in a moment he is anngry and in another
he will be laughing,
only his pranks would be
going on. Whose Vishuddhi
chakra goes out of order
है, उसकी शकल खराब हो जाती है पहली बात,
And all of this becomes like rebellious;
his face will have indifferent
looks sometimes scary, sometimes
sometimes scared.
Now what all we people
[inaudible] do, there
is no need to do all that.
there is no need to do any
thing for this. You just correct
your Vishuddhi Chakra
and your face will be alright.
Much of facial will
get set right and apart
from it the one whose
Vishuddhi Chakra is caught
his voice also either
becomes harsh Or it gets
slowed down or its
sweetness will become extinct.
The third thing is that
there is a left side of the
Vishuddhi Chakra inside us,
which we can say that which
On our left side, she
is Vishnu Maya, that is,
the sister of Shri Krishna,
who was Vishnu Maya.
Now that our sibling
relationship has deteriorated,
In any case, this Chakra
is spoiled when brothers do
not appreciate their
sisters, he teases his sisters,
the also this Chakra goes bad.
But in world when we look at every
women with bad eyes, and we
are not left within us the thought
that this is our sister then
this Chakra is caught very badly
and when left Vishuddhi turns
bad then the man feels that I made a
big mistake. In a way he
becomes a guilty man and
sometimes this guilt increases so much that
he starts commting more sins with his hand.
लगते हैं। He develops
a guilt complex inside
him.Therefore it has its
mantra in Sahaja Yoga.
In English it is said that I am not guilty;
In Hindi people say," Mother we did not
commit any such mistake that you
can't pardon. The right side Vishuddhi
is of Vitthal Rukmani, that is of the
time when He was ruling. When we
are positioned in our Kingdom, means our
Kingdom is that of God and when in God's
when we are sitting in the kingdom of God
and still we are begging like a begger and
ask for money from people
and we flatter them and
bow down before them then the right
Vishuddhi gets caught. The person who
for his selfish motive
bows down his head before
others or bows down before
the the negative man because
he considers him to be the Guru or
something, his right Vishuddhi gets caught.
And for the right Vishuddhi many
complications arise, specially cancer
may result. So those who for
flattering are going on feet of this and
touching the feet of
other, doing this and that
for them, may know in
end that except for God
they should not bow down their
head. And what is the need to bow and
down in front of them and what can they
give. Many people say that he was a Saint, we
bowed down; more so
they are hypocrites and
silly, if not then 420 or
demonic or Rakshasi.
Ok, if its not, take it there, a monk,
is Sadhu or Saint and realized too,
understand, still he is a human and
not God. He is not an incarnation. When
Unless he is an incarnation, where is
need to bow head. Tomorrow you too may
get realized, but to
in front of the incarnation
is other thing; Then all
the Chakras open up. Only
in front of the incarnation,
one should bow down head.
Bowing head before the parents is
another thing. It's a
daily courtsy, its different
thing. Bowed down to
parents, if went in marriage
then touched feet of
elders, its another thing.
Did once, its done, its courtsy,
but every time whosoever comes
some gentleman from there and
said that 'Sahab' he is a minister sir
and here are his four
deadly followers coming
behind him and
[inaudible] meeting is done.
People who are in such a
plight get into such sufferings.
They face so much problems that
I am tired of treating them because
man should care for his honor and the
pride; This Chakra that gave you pride
you raised your head. Not for this that
you keep on bowing down at every place and
decline your esteem.
You are great thing,
God has transformed you
human from an amoeba.
and when you have come to this condition,
its necessary for you to respect it.
respect self and know your
pride. Second thing is this that
Many people also have the feeling
that they are afraid of others; this also
can catch the left Vishuddhi.
When you're afraid of a man
In fact, you are unnecessarily afraid;
then your left Vishuddhi can be on hold.
The Vishuddhi Chakra
is very important and
caught up Vishuddhi Chakra
causes many diseases,
but then the worst thing is
that even if your realiztion
you do not feel the vibrations, you do
not feel; all the sensation of hand dies.
Then you don't feel in hand,
and people say Mother! inside
we are but do not feel in
hand. And so they find problem.
The biggest obstacle
of the Vishuddhi is that if
you have uttered the
wrong mantras, if you have
taken mantras from any person who is un
authorized, who has given you false mantr,.
in all these your left Vishuddhi will
catch and treatment of this left Vishuddhi
is to awaken that mantra. If
any mantra is not awakened,
then don't chant it and Mantar wake up only
when it is told by some realized soul and
may also demonstrate other
remedies too. Or that to what extent its
alright, what is the problem, which
Mantra is to be chanted at what time.
And if he can tell you fully,
then you say that mantra
Then you can
accomplish the mantra.
In Sahaja Yoga today there are thousands
of people who have aquired mantras power.
They are so authoritative
of these Mantra that
if they, right sitting
at their place here
with them then that
can work out their tasks
आप, लेकिन अच्छे मंत्र Can do ऐसे
अच्छे लोग पहुंच गए हैं सहज योग में,
दिल्ली में नहीं हैं इतना।
Something in Delhi
Are not पर बाकी ऐसे मैंने बहुत से People
who saw the mantras completely and on
the mantra for that perfection मेहनत
करनी पड़ती है। You have to sit and say
mantras, have to speak on it, on your
chakras ध्यान करना पड़ता है और उसकी
सिद्धता हासिल करनी पड़ती
है। If someone gave Ganesh
He can do such wonders,
which has no limits. But till
now there are many innocent
people in Sahaja Yoga that
Those who care this and those
who have cared for, that is most of
The people who perfected
the mantra so quickly, I wonder.
Such a big task can be accomplished with just
one of his mantra. That is why I tell you
not to disturb your Vishuddhi Chakra. The
Vishuddhi Chakra is Virat, Krishna is the
manifestation of Virat.
Finally Krishna is 'Virata' great.
Whatever evolution there is
only due to power of Vishnu.
So, when he becomes Vishnu, He
finally becomes Virat and this is the
place of Virat; Since this is the place
of Virat, to correct this Vishuddhi Chakra
you do not bow down
in front of anyone, it must
bow down only in front
of Virata because you
now have become part of
Virata gone, now you are realized
and beware if you bowed
your head in front of anyone.
If you have bowed down in front of
someone, you have forgotten Virat.
Muhammad Saheb has
said a very great Mantra of
Virata, "You call Allah Ho
Akbar" and this Mantra is
Muhammad Saheb, who was
an incarnation of Dattatreya,
has said this mantra,
"You say Allah Ho Akbar".
Akbar means Great, means Virata,
this finger is of Virat, of Vishuddhi.
If you put both fingers in the ear
and push your neck backwards and
say Allah Ho Akbar, then your Vishuddhi
Chakra gets opened. Apart from this many
asanas etc are there,
that I can't tell you today;
But there are many ways
in which it can be cured
and it should be kept right. The
biggest thing is that you will not say
any bitter thing to anyone with your tongue
and there is no need to flatter anyone.
When someone does
not believe in Sahaja Yoga,
then you should
clearly say, "Let it be,
you can not access it, leave it."
There is no need to flatter anyone, nor is
there any need to beg anyone, nor is
there a need to talk harsh to anyone.
It's okay if they believe
it, otherwise leave it, just
finish the work, be in the
middle. The Vishuddhi Chakra
has many defects, there are many ways
of it, because it has sixteen kalas, and
sixteen thousand are its powers, which were
with Krishna as his wives during his time.
If someone says that he
was such an addict for Krishna,
So it is very surprising that
the One who is Yogeshwar
of the Yogeshwars, in
order to understand him,
you will have to learn
a lot about him; he was
Yogeshwar himself, these
were his sixteen thousand
powers which he had given birth to in
this world and then he got them imprisoned,
and he married them again
because he had no Sahaja Yogi,
So he thought, "Okay, I keep my
powers in the world in human form.
And the biggest work
that he has done is to
cultivate Sahaja
Yoga. He spread out
the seed completely, and Jesus came
to the Agya Chakra afterwards and said,
"Some seeds fell here, some seeds fell
there, some seeds remained in between."
When Jesus speaks
of his father, he is no
other than second or
the third, he is Krishna.
Krishna is his father, whenever
you look at Jesus Christ, this
is these two fingers. He used
them to spread the seed completely;
This finger is of Vishnu
and this finger is of Krishna.
He always talked
about his father, for this,
if you read, then
read the Devi Bhagwat
in which there is a
description of Mahavishnu,
who was made the
son of Radha ji and
exactly the same thing is Jesus Christ,
he had two parts, one was Shri Ganesha
and one Jesus Christ.
Moving forward, in the Eleventh Rudra,
the great power that exists is the Om
power. This is why He
did not die; His resurrection
occurred, for He was the
embodiment of Pranava because
He came into this world and then departed
from it. He was the very form of Ganesh, who
came into this world, and thus nothing could
destroy Him. He was the only incarnation
sent by the Divine, who was solely the
Pranava. The reason He was crucified was
because the Agnya Chakra
He had to be open up.
When, due to human stupidity,
He was crucified, it was as though
He removed Himself from that Agnya
Chakra for the sake of everyone. And
His message was not about the cross;
His message was about resurrection.
He rose up and
demonstrated resurrection.
He showed how to
live after dying, and that
is the essence of Sahaja
Yoga, where you too
experience the same. The
conception is immaculate, meaning
that even today, when you
enter the womb of the mother,
she brings you into this world through
the Brahmarandhra; you are the one who
first die and are reborn anew.
Jesus Christ was the first to
demonstrate this; He was the greatest
son of the mother and your eldest brother.
He was the first to do such a great
deed, and today, by his example, you are
also doing the same. Every incarnation that
comes leads the way, takes a step forward,
and performs great
and magnificent works.
And the person who has crossed the
Agnya Chakra knows that our mantra is
returning to Sahaja
Yoga, and once they return,
they are immediately
freed from the Agnya Chakra
because it has been said, just
as we forgive our sins, we forgive
those who have opposed
us, in the same way, O Lord,
forgive our sins. This is
the mantra of the Agnya
Chakra; you will be
surprised, and many times
I tell you to forgive,
forgive, forgive because your
Agnya is caught. Between ego
and anti-ego, there is a space where
the pituitary and pineal
glands manage both,
and in between them
is a subtle space of
the Agnya. Both of these work
and both are handled by them and
their behavior. The process begins with the
Vishuddhi Chakra, but their movement and
Handling and the steering happen
through the Agnya Chakra, where
Mahaganesh and Mahabhairav
are seated. And what
was in front, the place
of the Agnya Chakra
here is the place of Jesus Christ.
Jesus Christ is Mahavishnu. And
Krishna had said for Him that whatever
things people offer to me in this world,
one-sixteenth of that will be
yours, and you will come as the
foundation of the entire world.
And higher than me even will be
your place . Although Shri
Krishna’s position is that of the Virata,
here in the middle of Agnya Chakra,
see at both the places, see that in
between these two, He
placed His son. And Radha
Ji herself is Mary, who
in the same form of Mary
came into this world;
She brought this son.
This entire play and
drama were enacted so that
human beings, in
their foolishness, could
understand that in their
arrogance, in their ego,
they failed to recognize
even a being like Jesus
Christ, who was the
embodiment of the Spirit.
But now this cannot happen. Jesus
Christ has said that whatever you may have
said against me, I
forgive that, and whatever
injustice you have done
to me, I will forgive that too.
But if anyone takes
even a small step against
the Holy Ghost,
meaning the Adi Shakti,
I will take care of it. He has
clearly stated in plain words that
the punishment for that will be very
severe. He has said this explicitly.
If you read the Bible, you will
see that he has mentioned that
the Holy Ghost will come
into the world, and from the
Holy Ghost, cool air will flow,
the Cool Breeze will come.
This is written in
the Bible. That is why
Christians, not so much
in India, but those outside,
accept this very quickly.
This is the sign of the
Holy Ghost; this is the
sign of the Adi Shakti.
No one else emits such cool air as
that which comes from the Holy Ghost.
This is written in it,
but the most surprising
thing is that there
was a William Blake...
A man named William Blake, who was a great
poet a hundred years ago, even wrote about
where our ashram would
be. He mentioned that the
ashram would be in Lambeth
Well, where among the ruins,
furbations would be
offered, which is true.
And where all Mother
first visited in London,
the place where I lived
in Surrey Hills. He wrote,
"First because will
live in Surrey Hills."
He also mentioned
that, Her love, in detail.
the vibrations of their of
would spread like sinews
everywhere, reaching every
place and being used in every way.
He described Sahaja
Yoga in such fine detail,
and the most significant
thing he wrote was that
in Sahaja Yoga, people would
become prophets, meaning
they would become apostles,
they would attain realization.
The people of God, the
men of God, would achieve
self-realization. And one
special thing would be that
those who attain
realizationwould also make
others into prophets.
He described everything
In the same way, even in John's
Revelation, everything about Sahaja Yoga is
written. Those who have
the understanding can
comprehend it after
attaining realization.
Such prophecies have been made
everywhere. Those who are wise
understand everything, but
for those who are not wise,
it is like letters before a
buffalo—they cannot grasp it.
It is the same thing. For
a person to understand,
they must first attain realization.
Until the light comes within, one cannot
comprehend it. That is why
you must first attain realization,
and then everything
completely you will understand.
Speaking about it without realization
will be futile. Well, it has been a long
time now, so you should attain realization.
Already all are done. Please put your hands
Towards me, which day is your center
here? It dented; Dented every where
as if just escaping, as if just above
the head and was in between the crown.
This is how it happened, and as soon
as the key was turned, the bus started
moving again. People were astonished,
saying that into such a deep pit
all those who had fallen,
were three generations of
people, all would have perished
—none would have survived.
There are countless such incidents, but if
two people will not come here on Sunday
or Monday, then for them, Mataji
does not exist; First, force yourself to
come; afterward, you will
come naturally. Even if stopped
forcefully, you will not stop
because, in the beginning,
you have to gauge yourself a
little. Once you understand yourself,
the joy is so immense that
nothing else matters.Then,
you will come here out
of sheer enthusiasm.
Someone might say, "Not
on Monday, sir," and you will
feel, "Oh, what went wrong?"
Because the whole world
changes. But there comes a time
when you need to push yourself
a little for it. So
please, push yourself,
come to Sahaja Yoga,
meet everyone, be blessed,
and talk amongst yourselves.
These are your real brothers
and sisters, and they
will tell you where you are
caught up, where they
are getting stuck, and
they will explain everything
to you. And now that
you have been enlightened,
the light has come within you,
you too should look towards
others. Your brothers, sisters,
and relatives call them
up; invite everyone.
We have a Sahaja
Yogi, Mr. Pradhan.
His eldest son's son passed
away in a very tragic way—
he jumped into a tank
and died. People then
said to him, "Mataji
did nothing for this boy."
To this, he replied, "Sir, has Mataji
taken a contract for my family?"
His father never went to Mataji,
and his son never went either.
Although he was my grandson, and it is
a great sorrow for me, but against Mataji,
please do not speak. My son
said, "You are being foolish;
you are completely devoted
to Sahaja Yoga, while this
boy never even came. He
used to laugh at Mother."
When they never sought her
refuge, never did anything for it,
then why do you expect anything? Has
Mother taken a contract for all the work?
And when today, their age
is around 65 or 75 years.
They are very hardworking
people, very noble people,
and have done a lot for
Sahaja Yoga. But see,
you invite your relatives for meals,
for gatherings. Tell them to come for the
feast of Sahaja Yoga.
You may have to invite them
for food, but they will
surely come for a meal.
After the meal, there will be bhajans,
and after the bhajans, realization.
In some way or another,
they have to be brought across.
It is not easy; they are
not easily caught. Just as
fish are caught, in the same
way, these Sahaja Yogis
have to be brought in.That
is why effort must be made.
Still, many will slip away completely.
So, those who are foolish, let them be.
We will see them
later. But those who are
wise, explain to them,
make them understand,
and bring them into Sahaja Yoga.